Lilliana Robinson: Recording.
Lilliana Robinson: So Verona went through our program. In the summer of 2022 she actually went through with bloomfilter and zest. So that's like a very big cohort, right? Because you guys have heard from Eric, who took over Bloomfilter. You guys have heard from Jake. Those are all Furona's classmates. She didn't go through the program with Eric, but Eric was an eir, and then joined one of her classmates as co-CEO.
Lilliana Robinson: Verona went through with a company called near I'll let her tell you about near. But she ended up winding down near in the last year, and came on and worked with us as a founder in residence. So she was helping kind of like the Eirs help
Lilliana Robinson: but even more part of our core team. So she spent about a year helping us run the programs out here in the bay while she was kind of getting ready to start her next thing. And now she's joined
Lilliana Robinson: future house.
Lilliana Robinson: Is that the name of the whole company.
Ferrona Lie: Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: And I'll let Ferona tell you about future house. But that's her newest venture that she's working on now so far is awesome. She has always been a financial modeling expert because she listened to Troy just like you guys took it super seriously, built her model, helped her classmates build their models, and then, when she was working for us, she was mentoring all of our companies, 48 companies
Lilliana Robinson: going through this financial modeling as well. So it's such a treat that she's willing to share her time. Now that she's like, you know, just deep in the startup experience, just like you guys like she's back being a founder and doing all that stuff. So thank you, Frona. I don't take it lightly that you're sharing so much time this week. I really appreciate it. And for you guys, just so, you know, background on this session. And I'll let Verona tell you more about her companies and such. But this session was something she wanted to add.
Lilliana Robinson: because we noticed in the past, like 4 ish programs that after Troy's session there's like
Lilliana Robinson: and intimidation, I don't know if you guys kind of feel that way. But like it was so much. And it's almost like scary to like.
Lilliana Robinson: where do I start? Like, okay, I get what I need to do. But that's just like a lot. And I need someone to just like start me out or or help walk me through it a little bit.
Lilliana Robinson: from like a more rudimentary getting started perspective. So that's something that Frona wanted to add. She knows Troy really well. He was her professor. She's worked with him on all this kind of stuff, so it's a perfect like segue. So they all had Troy's last night from 4 to 6 pm. Frona, so they're coming.
Ferrona Lie: Like hot off.
Lilliana Robinson: With it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And then you guys will get to meet her. Meet with Verona one on one later this week on Thursday
Lilliana Robinson: cool, so I'll hand it over to you, Frona, but I'll be here for anything. While you, while you give me the call.
Ferrona Lie: Solution.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, thank you so much. And for clarification clarification, Liliana. So they just
Ferrona Lie: finished initial modeling the usual with Troy last night.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, cause Troy split into 2, if you remember, from last program, he like
Lilliana Robinson: did a guinea pig thing with us. He ended up implementing that. So he had financial feasibility, which was like the lemonade stand thing.
Ferrona Lie: I was there.
Lilliana Robinson: In week one.
Lilliana Robinson: And now they just had the traditional talk last night from 4 to 6 Pm.
Ferrona Lie: Gotcha. Okay, wow, all right. So this is fresh off the model. Awesome. Thanks. A lot for tuning in. And it's great to see all of you and out of curiosity. How many have built
Ferrona Lie: your financial model?
Ferrona Lie: They'll have.
Lilliana Robinson: Version to get into text to our program.
Ferrona Lie: That's right. Yes, I remember that. But and and I guess a better answer, a better question, prob perhaps.
Ferrona Lie: how many feel comfortable with it, or
Ferrona Lie: have no plans to
Ferrona Lie: rebuilt.
Ferrona Lie: at least in the next.
Ferrona Lie: How many, how much longer you have in the program?
Ferrona Lie: Okay? So
Ferrona Lie: to be quite Frank, this session is best for those who are either rebuilding or
Ferrona Lie: basically pivoting to another business. So you have to rebuild. Or if this is the 1st time that you're building a financial model. And so if you feel comfortable already with your model, don't plan to build in the next several weeks.
Ferrona Lie: Honestly, I've been on your in your position before, so feel free to kind of deck out if you want to. I I don't know if I'm overstepping Liliana by allowing you not to attend a workshop. But truly, if if you're good to go, it's completely.
Lilliana Robinson: I think very few are good to go for, and this week is kind of dedicated to getting this in line. It's also their data room assignment. A lot of people do have a draft. But after seeing choice, I'm sure most of you feel like, Oh, there's a lot to change a lot to
Lilliana Robinson: update, and all of that. And so I'd like a lot of you to apply what you learn. Very, very few of you are in a state where it's like good to go. We we can ship it to an investor right now.
Lilliana Robinson: I think the vast majority of you need this.
Ferrona Lie: Okay, well, this sounds great. And so
Ferrona Lie: please make this as engaging as possible. Because this is only going to be fun for anyone. If this is engaging, and so stop me anytime with any questions feel free also to leave comments on the chat. I'm hoping Chloe or liana can help also monitoring the chat as well, just in case there are questions there.
Ferrona Lie: and we can then go ahead and get started. So a brief, I added a brief intro. My God! My photo is so blurry I'm so sorry. Well, you can see my face so it's not going to be a problem. So my name is Frona, and I guess I'm a senior serial entrepreneur. At this point I've started a couple of companies. The 1st one is a biotech company, making optogenetics devices for neuroscience, and
Ferrona Lie: ran, it ran it for about 5 years, I would say, and got to the point where it was profitable, which is fantastic. But
Ferrona Lie: I got kind of bored after that, and so I decided to leave and go back to school.
Ferrona Lie: And that's how I met Troy. He was my professor and I co-founded a company during school called neurotechnology that went through techstars. And we provide tech support for older adults. And to Leanna's comment. Earlier.
Ferrona Lie: I relocated to the bay 2022 in the middle of program. And so in 2023, basically winding it down to a small business. So my co-founder and I are still running it part time and weekends right now. This is truly a passion project for us, so we still see clients. I have, like a loyal 20
Ferrona Lie: grandmas and grandpas that call me every other month, or something to get help with their computers and whatnot.
Ferrona Lie: And so and now I'm a member of the operation staff at future house, and so I did not co-found this one company, and to a certain degree. I consider this, I would say
Ferrona Lie: it feels a little bit like Sabbatical from entrepreneurship and also learning in how to run basically a growth stage. Because we are.
Ferrona Lie: I want to say, at a
Ferrona Lie: closer to seed series, a company. And for context, future house is a nonprofit research organization. We're primarily backed by Eric Schmidt.
Ferrona Lie: and we have a mission to accelerate scientific discovery. And so we're building AI agents to help scientists make
Ferrona Lie: their research.
Ferrona Lie: I guess, have a higher throughput, and we're going to start with biology as a field.
Ferrona Lie: And so
Ferrona Lie: that's a little bit about me.
Ferrona Lie: And so before I move on and jump right into the topic to Liliana's point, I have helped, I want to say, a total of
Ferrona Lie: 60 companies, I think, in the past year to build their financial model. So I have seen a good amount. But and I do believe that it is best for Ceos to build them themselves.
Ferrona Lie: If you are a CEO, and you're not building your future financial model, or at least not managing it yourself. I still highly highly recommend that you at least
Ferrona Lie: try to build it once, because then you would truly understand
Ferrona Lie: how to actually utilize it in a way that's best served you, because I have also seen founders that have their Cfo. Or whoever it is, within their company to build their financial model, which is completely fine. If that's kind of your choice, but I do highly recommend this for the Ceos to take a stab at it, at least multiple times, I think throughout the course of near. I built a total of something like 13 from the formation of the company, just because the business changes all the time.
Ferrona Lie: The business model changes all the time. Business change all the time. People blah blah, and at future house to no surprise, I built a financial model for the company
Ferrona Lie: and so I work closely with our CEO. He had built it once, struggled with it once at least, and acknowledged that it's not his expertise. So this is now what I'm part of the things that I'm doing now. Future house. And we just meet every month, basically go through it. And budget our
Ferrona Lie: create budgets for the company.
Ferrona Lie: So with that.
Ferrona Lie: I'm
Ferrona Lie: person ready to jump right in. If you have any questions, let me know literally just like unmute your mic.
Lilliana Robinson: Maybe. Do you guys have any questions
Lilliana Robinson: from Troy? Session that you felt like did not get answered, or now that you've like, sat with it for a second. You have questions. I think that's probably the thing we should start with, since it's fresh on your mind, and to make sure everyone is on the same page. Was there anything that like Verona can explain more? Yeah, George.
George Reed - Noetic: If it's okay. Thanks. Thanks, Verona. Thanks to Leona. I guess the one thing that so, Troy. I watched it twice Troy mentioned the. So there's the balance sheet, the cash flow statement. And
George Reed - Noetic: so what was the 3rd one that he always shows.
Ferrona Lie: Income statement, balance, sheet.
George Reed - Noetic: Income statement. That's sorry. Sorry the difference between those. But like so
George Reed - Noetic: let's say, we're working with our accountant. And how should we reference like a P. And L. For example, should we be referencing that to update the model
George Reed - Noetic: monthly or something, is that sort of the core source of truth, or
George Reed - Noetic: because I don't trust myself to track the financials as well as an accountant or.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, a hundred percent. So what do you and this could probably go into the nitty, nitty gritty also. But what do you do? What do you use for accounting? Is it cookbooks.
George Reed - Noetic: No, just literally like traditional accounting, like
George Reed - Noetic: he's got. Excel my accountant. He just
George Reed - Noetic: yeah does it all manually.
Ferrona Lie: That actually is probably easier than using quickbooks, because I am future house uses quickbooks right now, and it's a little bit of a headache just to match a chart of accounts with what you're actually spending month to month. So great question, the 1st answer to that is. Yes, you have to sit down with an accounting, or an accountant, or an accounting tool every month to actually report what you're spending on.
Ferrona Lie: and and we'll I'll cover this slightly as well as to how to go about it if you don't have backgrounds in accounting.
Ferrona Lie: Because I think for some people. If if you don't have an accounting education before, it can be a little confusing as to what to pay attention to, which is also another thing that I'm currently working right now with Sam, my CEO, because he's he's a fantastic, brilliant scientist, doesn't necessarily have a background in accounting. And so
Ferrona Lie: I'm actually learning as to what is the most important for someone who doesn't have a background in accounting at this stage of the company. And so we'll cover that a little bit as well. So
Ferrona Lie: great question, cool.
George Reed - Noetic: Thank you.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah.
Morgan Stanton: Hi, so yeah, this is gonna be kind of a novice question. But like, we spent a long time yesterday on yeah, this is to George for the income statement sheet, and I get that. That's easy for me. I have a harder time like linking 3 like. Somehow they like, go to the other ones, and then they're not like making sense to me. So maybe it'll be more on our one on one. But just seeing like making sure they're all kind of in sync has been like a challenge for me.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah. How about this? So I'll prepare this in a second. I'm happy to show
Ferrona Lie: a future houses model as long as it's not recorded that part some part of it. I'm not gonna show, obviously, for, you know, sensitive information. But I'm happy to show how to basically link everything all in in a way that would make sense. Because
Ferrona Lie: I, personally had made slight modifications with financial with choice formatting. To be quite honest with you, because, at least for for me personally, it
Ferrona Lie: you know how, with Troy different sheets you have to reference different sheets, and then, like each one has their own, you know.
Ferrona Lie: kind of place like income statement into one cash flow in one and the balance sheet into one.
Ferrona Lie: I, personally have modified it slightly, so that I, at the very least, I can see income statement and cash flow and balance sheet as a dashboard in one giant dashboard that probably only makes sense to me. But it helps, because then I can. I'm able to basically see the connection a lot closer, because I think one of the challenges with with the different sheets is that when you have to go back and forth, it's just not the most you know convenient thing to do on
Ferrona Lie: one screen of your computer. And also
Ferrona Lie: when creating the giant dashboard.
Ferrona Lie: you will then be able to basically develop your own preferences as to what you actually care about. So, for instance, that feature house
Ferrona Lie: Sam really cares about how much the cash goes out every month, really. And then how? What categories
Ferrona Lie: do they fall under?
Ferrona Lie: And now that can be a little tricky, because sometimes, and not to go into detail. Not too nitty gritty about accounting.
Ferrona Lie: If we spend something that's actually considered as asset, it doesn't show up on cash flow. It's show up on our financial income statement. I'm so sorry. Balance sheet, see? Because it's a fixed asset. So it's depreciated in the expense, then will show up on our income statement. Now, even in this one statement I already mentioned the almost 3 of them in one
Ferrona Lie: in one go, because yes, the cash did go out, and that is reflected in the cash flow. But it's not recorded in income statement. It is recorded in the balance sheet. But then.
Ferrona Lie: the income statement will then started to, you know, depreciate the have the appreciation expense reflected on it. And so
Ferrona Lie: this is just one example of how that is very visually challenging for me to go back between multiple sheets. So I ended up just compiling them all together in a way that at least makes sense to me, and so you can probably build your own dashboard. That would make sense to you, too. So.
Morgan Stanton: That's great. Thank you.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah.
Annie Brown: I had a I had a quick, quick question about
Annie Brown: what one of the things I've had the biggest challenge with with financial models is
Annie Brown: coming up with predictions, for
Annie Brown: you know what the revenue for the next month is. Gonna be
Annie Brown: And
Annie Brown: I know, Troy said.
Annie Brown: You know, like he doesn't like models that just apply a
Annie Brown: base growth rate. And then you just grow each month according to that. But I'm just trying to
Annie Brown: like I didn't quite get out of yesterday's session like, what is the alternative to that? Like? What is what is the right way to predict growth for your company?
Ferrona Lie: Yes, great question, and that is actually one of the 1 point that I added at the very end, which is not to assign growth rate as a part of your assumption model. Determine what the growth rate is. Rate is. And so let's go into actually how to build, because it will make sense as we go. But that's a fantastic question. Thank you so much. Alright. So
Ferrona Lie: what you need is just I, personally just like pen and paper, or or if you have a whiteboard, don't even touch a Google sheet or an Excel sheet just yet at this point.
Ferrona Lie: because then this part is where you basically will go through
Ferrona Lie: the mechanics of
Ferrona Lie: what actually is going to your financial model and your levers, which will then dictate, or I guess to a certain degree. Tell you what your growth rate is going to be. So
Ferrona Lie: and if you can start.
Ferrona Lie: I'll just scratch this a blank Google Sheet. Maybe maybe don't even don't even start on this yet, just like pen and paper at this point.
Ferrona Lie: And so
Ferrona Lie: let's go with the 1st principles first, st which is, how do you make money? I know that he mentioned this very briefly at the beginning of his financial model, but I would take. Maybe let's take a like 3 to 5 min for you to actually draw it out. What is all the variables that go into, you guys making revenue, and this should look different for each company, so
Ferrona Lie: I'll.
Annie Brown: When when you say variables, does that include expenses as well or just like, How are you making money.
Ferrona Lie: Just how you're making money. Okay? So this is an example. How, if you are a subscription business, then the number of subscribers
Ferrona Lie: times the amount of money for substitution and all that. So just take a moment, pen and paper.
Ferrona Lie: write it down.
Ferrona Lie: and at 53 I would just
Ferrona Lie: call someone out to show me what they have. And or you guys can can volunteer as well.
Ferrona Lie: That's about enough time. Does anyone want to volunteer or show their revenue formula.
Florence Ettlin: Hi!
Florence Ettlin: Hi! Hi! Frona! Hi! From Collab. It's Talitha. And our revenue is basically number of units multiplied by the subscription price per month.
Ferrona Lie: Okay, so that's monthly revenue.
Florence Ettlin: Yes, yes.
Ferrona Lie: Okay? And what is what is units for you guys.
Florence Ettlin: You like properties that we have. That's why we call them units. But it's like short term rental units. Yeah, yeah.
Ferrona Lie: And this is also, if you can get the one liner about your business that would be great. So I have a little bit, more. Context, yes, yeah.
Florence Ettlin: So we have an AI power pocket concierge for short term rentals to support both guests and hosts alike, with property info local recommendations, everything to provide a delightful guest. Experience.
Ferrona Lie: Okay. So when you say units, are you referring to? Is it just like my house that I, Airbnb? Or is it some
Ferrona Lie: will will one person have multiple units? For instance.
Florence Ettlin: Yes, one person could have multiple units. But, for instance, when you said the example of an Airbnb property, that's right. That's 1 unit.
Ferrona Lie: Okay. Wonderful.
Florence Ettlin: But it could also be property management companies with like lots of units. That's why we count by unit and not by company, that we work with.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, between the property managers and the
Ferrona Lie: let's say, private owners. Someone like me who rent out the Airbnb, who is your main target right now?
Florence Ettlin: Property, management, companies, right now.
Ferrona Lie: Okay? So with Property Management company, it means that your unit is also dependent on how many property managers you're going to have. Is that right?
Florence Ettlin: Assuming.
Ferrona Lie: I guess, like, do most property managers have more than one
Ferrona Lie: property? Or is it more common that they only have one.
Florence Ettlin: So Property Management Company would have multiple units. The reason why we distinguish between sorry not to like confuse everybody. But the reason why we distinguish between properties and units is because one huge property have multiple units within it. Right? If it's like a larger building, it could have many within it. Yeah.
Ferrona Lie: Okay. So let's.
Ferrona Lie: I'm just gonna
Ferrona Lie: no, it's it's not confusing. I think this is
Ferrona Lie: part of the reasons we're doing this. So
Ferrona Lie: so I'm just gonna use this basically number of units plus this is subscription per month, right?
Ferrona Lie: Per unit, yeah
Ferrona Lie: per unit. And so you're mentioning that the the property, each property manager will have multiple units.
Florence Ettlin: The ones that we approach right now. Yes, they have. On average, 50 units can be up to 100 units. It depends on the company size.
Ferrona Lie: Okay. So I, I personally would expand it to also number of property managers and also and then
Ferrona Lie: basically average unit per property manager.
Ferrona Lie: This is not knowing your business as much, so you can decide, and then this is.
Florence Ettlin: This is.
Ferrona Lie: Description.
Ferrona Lie: Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Explain why that's more helpful.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, because if this is
Ferrona Lie: again, this is going to depend on you. But if the assumption is that the property manager is going to have more than one unit.
Ferrona Lie: Then it you need to break it down to a lot more granular detail. Because then, let's say you have 5 property managers that you're reaching out to.
Ferrona Lie: and then each one of them will have a certain number of units. And
Ferrona Lie: and so when you.
Ferrona Lie: when you
Ferrona Lie: when you calculate how much revenue it's it's going to also depend on how many property managers, as you add more customers, because then it's unlikely. It's highly unlikely that you reach out to. Let's say, let's say you get your 6th property manager. It's unlikely that the number actually increases linearly.
Ferrona Lie: It will be a multiply of your property manager.
Ferrona Lie: And I can. Also I I was when when I was
Ferrona Lie: when you guys were writing out your
Ferrona Lie: what'd you call that
Ferrona Lie: re formula I was pulling up. This is my old financial model from near, for instance, can you see my screen? By the way, can you see that.
Lilliana Robinson: I see.
Ferrona Lie: Wonderful.
Ferrona Lie: Okay, so
Ferrona Lie: so this is an example of the revenue formula. It looks long, because at the time we also didn't know what we were doing. But basically, I also sold to retirement communities and
Ferrona Lie: each retirement communities will have a certain level of conversion. And then the fee that they are actually paying us at the end.
Ferrona Lie: And so
Ferrona Lie: you want to capture the lever. So you can actually change. I think that's that's the.
Florence Ettlin: Okay.
Ferrona Lie: Way of explaining what.
Florence Ettlin: Got it. Yeah. So we only did it from the like, most basic approach. But yeah, in the model, for example, what we did is, we looked at the average number of units that the company would have.
Florence Ettlin: Yes. So you're saying to include that as well as the outreach. So how many companies we approach. In the 1st place.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, so eventually.
Florence Ettlin: Managers.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, that is correct. So eventually you would like your revenue model to be as granular as possible as it relates, or as it pertains to how you're actually getting the revenue and so and I can also expand it. This is a now a feedback for me. I need to expand the revenue formula here as well, because then eventually you will.
Ferrona Lie: You will want to see all the levers. Where is my excel sheet? All the levers that you can actually pull whenever you want to change your revenue. Basically. So, Annie, to answer your initial question on how to actually grow as a company. So I'm gonna use near. And so for context, near at the time sold to retirement communities.
Ferrona Lie: And they pay us a fee every month. Basically like subscription for us to come every month and to provide a genius bar for the for the retirees. The retirees don't really pay any fee for us to come
Ferrona Lie: and
Ferrona Lie: I wanna I wanna just focus on the b 2 b side of things. First, st because we do b 2 b, and I'll be, and also b 2 c as well. Oh, jeez is so big, so and how do we get the retirement communities? So we do primarily direct outreach. There's no SEO for me at the time. There's no referrals. We just do direct outreach. And then, there's a certain level of conversion.
Ferrona Lie: and and then, obviously afterwards, it's just the fee that they're paying us.
Ferrona Lie: And so when you want to grow let's say, at the time I I reach out to 10 at a time, and then I know that for every 10 that I reach out to 5 convert, and then the fee is a hundred dollars.
Ferrona Lie: So whenever you want to grow as opposed to. Oh, we assume we're gonna grow by 20%. So that next next month we're going to have
Ferrona Lie: 2 more retirement communities, or
Ferrona Lie: I guess 100% of
Ferrona Lie: 5 is
Ferrona Lie: one one more retirement communities. I just decided, okay, how many do I need to reach out to get to? Actually 6?
Ferrona Lie: If that makes sense? If the conversion is 50%, then I would just need to reach out of 3, basically. And then that will give me
Ferrona Lie: one more retirement community. And that is me growing by 20%. Does that make sense? Let me let me know if it doesn't make sense. By the way.
Lilliana Robinson: That's for you, Annie.
Annie Brown: Yeah, it does make sense, I guess.
Annie Brown: my question is.
Annie Brown: and maybe this is just specific to my business. But like.
Annie Brown: do you have do you average
Annie Brown: the cost per cause? I would assume. I don't know for this example, but for us we have different tiers, so like different
Annie Brown: customers put pay different
Annie Brown: costs, or, yeah, pay a different price. And so would you average that. Or then do you just estimate like
Annie Brown: I'm gonna have?
Annie Brown: you know, with this direct outreach.
Annie Brown: I'm gonna get
Annie Brown: 3 at let at tier one and 3 customers at tier 3, cause that's where I have trouble with my model is like
Annie Brown: estimating
Annie Brown: where a customer is gonna come in as far as like which tier they're gonna pay at.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, a couple of questions on that. So the 1st one is, do you already have tiers right now? Or is it something that you were planning to do in the future.
Annie Brown: We have tiers right now. So we have customers paying at different levels. We're still trying to figure out our pricing strategy as far as what those tiers are, and so I'm kind of hoping the model will will help with that.
Ferrona Lie: Okay?
Ferrona Lie: And so the reason I asked for that one before I moved on is that if you are planning to have tiers, don't worry about it. Just build the model basis based off what you actually are doing already. And it's so easy to overcomplicate it as we go, because gonna get complex. But don't worry about it right now. If you haven't done so already. Now, if you have, what is the standard deviation of
Ferrona Lie: the different tiers. How different they are, are they?
Ferrona Lie: You know, one degree of magnitude, larger or smaller, with each other. Are they just different? A difference by like $500 per month per month. I'm just curious as to how different they are.
Annie Brown: Yeah. So our our current customers range from paying $1,500 a month
Annie Brown: to paying $4,500 a month.
Ferrona Lie: I would personally not average it because it is basically 3 x of one another. And so
Ferrona Lie: you can separate it out to different products. And we can also, I can also show you how to go about that. And I might already have it. Sorry. It's not my personal monitor. So I don't.
Ferrona Lie: I'm not working it out very well. But let's see here. Okay, so this is a good example of when you get to the point where you feel comfortable adding complexity. But just to illustrate Annie. So we have what we call the tech stand, which is the genius bar at the retirement community
Ferrona Lie: and workshop, which is presentations that we do.
Annie Brown: Oh!
Ferrona Lie: Membership also for B, 2 C. Now, I treat these separately as different products, and the large black box boxes here just represent that at 1 point I just discontinued that as a product. And so this will also
Ferrona Lie: at 1 point, it got too complicated because some products are not relevant anymore. So I have to rebuild to make it more, make sense because it can get dizzying, as you can see, there's just so much so much going on here. But this is one way to separate it out. Basically treat them distinctly and
Ferrona Lie: and process them distinctly as well. Yeah.
Annie Brown: Almost like you're building kind of like, a.
Annie Brown: not a separate model, but like a a
Annie Brown: yeah. So you're just doing.
Ferrona Lie: I don't.
Annie Brown: Different line items. But then you do the same like
Annie Brown: outreach stuff like that for each one.
Ferrona Lie: That's correct. Yes.
Annie Brown: Okay, that's super helpful.
Ferrona Lie: Okay, any other question.
Ferrona Lie: Okay? So
Ferrona Lie: a couple of things to just before we move on on the revenue model. Get as granular as you can as it pertain pertains on how you actually get your revenue.
Ferrona Lie: And so
Ferrona Lie: number of property managers multiply by average unit. If
Ferrona Lie: per property manager multiply by the dollar value this is for is it, Collab? Am I pronouncing that right.
Florence Ettlin: Yes, that's perfect, awesome.
Ferrona Lie: And then, after this, also go down to how you're actually acquiring these property managers. And so
Ferrona Lie: let's actually go down to this. I think you you had already alluded to this a little bit. How are you getting these property managers.
Florence Ettlin: Yeah. So we broke it down by the number of property management companies that we reach out to.
Florence Ettlin: And then we broke it down by the average number of units that each one of those has, and how many of those actually come on board. So the conversion.
Florence Ettlin: and then times the price per unit per month.
Ferrona Lie: Yes.
Florence Ettlin: Yeah.
Ferrona Lie: Let me organize this. So this makes sense.
Lilliana Robinson: Ferna. Just a time check. You have 25 min left.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, that sounds good. Okay.
Ferrona Lie: so this is basically direct outreach conversion rate. And then everything else should be the same I'm assuming, because then, after you direct outreach, some of them will convert, and then, when once they convert, there's a certain level average number of units per property manager. So this should be the same. So not during the session. But if you haven't done this already, do this for every single revenue source that you have. And so as I showed previously in near's model. We we had
Ferrona Lie: as any other startups do. We have so many things that we're trying out. And so we did. We did that for every single one retirement communities. We also have membership fees for for for B 2 Cs, so
Ferrona Lie: make sure you have this before you start your financial model
Ferrona Lie: and let's go into how to actually get started.
Ferrona Lie: Okay? So I'm gonna go back to slideshow.
Ferrona Lie: So
Ferrona Lie: these 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5 sheets is what I would highly recommend. Starting with
Ferrona Lie: any guesses as to why we're starting here.
Ferrona Lie: Okay.
Ferrona Lie: I don't know the answer. So we're starting here because basically, this is going to represent your your sales pipeline.
Ferrona Lie: So this the vertical version of us of traffic details, sales, details and monthly income statement is going to be your sales pipeline.
Ferrona Lie: because then traffic details
Ferrona Lie: should list out every single thing that you do to get your revenue.
Ferrona Lie: So for collapse, example, for instance, this should record the number of property managers who we touch every month.
Ferrona Lie: Sales details will then
Ferrona Lie: represent the conversion rate, like how many actually convert into
Ferrona Lie: a customer and income statement? Basically, at the end of the day, is
Ferrona Lie: sales detail represented in dollar value because they are not one to one.
Ferrona Lie: and assumptions obviously need to be there.
Ferrona Lie: And employees, I add, because for most startups that's the biggest cost
Ferrona Lie: for the company, and so I would add that 1st and foremost, before you started to going to to go to to other expenses as well.
Ferrona Lie: We've got a notification of chat here.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, there was just one more company that wanted to share their revenue formula. I don't know if you have time.
Ferrona Lie: Oh, gotcha! Yes, I'm happy to revisit. And we have time at the end.
Ferrona Lie: And so basically, I'm gonna keep using club as an example, you guys, I'm so sorry.
Ferrona Lie: So your number of direct outreach eventually is going to be your traffic details. That's where you record it.
Ferrona Lie: And then conversion rate is also in the traffic details
Ferrona Lie: and sales details as well.
Ferrona Lie: And
Ferrona Lie: this whole last piece is where income statement is going to come in.
Ferrona Lie: So. This is like the the what do you call that? The transpose version of your sales? Pipeline is these 3 sheets, and then employees is the biggest
Ferrona Lie: cost source for most of you guys.
Ferrona Lie: So
Ferrona Lie: this is where I would start. It should be stupidly simple. And this is also a made up bakery that I created just to illustrate what we're talking about. So traffic details should be if we're doing Facebook posts or SEO spend.
Ferrona Lie: And then every single conversion, or every single data that you have on
Ferrona Lie: on the conversion should also be recorded here, and then sales include the actual total purchase, or whatever subscribe subscription, whatever it is that you're that is relevant to your business.
Ferrona Lie: It will then convert into dollar value in the income statement.
Ferrona Lie: and then employees is where most of us have the biggest cost
Ferrona Lie: questions. So far.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, I do have a question on on conversion rates, because also from price talk. It sounds like these are, these numbers are like the most
Fabio Caironi: important like, if if you tweak these numbers, you're gonna get like different sales results.
Fabio Caironi: Well, like and also those are the ones that are most difficult to control. It's like you can control the ad spend. But what is conversion rate so like in our case? We don't have this number, and I think somebody, I think Kevin brought it up. It was like, Should we adhere to like industry standards, or just like, you know,
Fabio Caironi: take a stab and and like, use a starting point, and then, just like
Fabio Caironi: tweak it and and stabilize it.
Fabio Caironi: According to our data. What's your approach here?
Ferrona Lie: Yeah. So industry standard is is okay in, I want to say, industry standard is a good starting point.
Ferrona Lie: But make sure to see the verticals that you're in, because the SEO for Fintech is going to be very different from SEO, for science, for instance, which is something that a lot of people forgot to do, at least in the last multiple cohorts. They just kind of look up. What is the SEO conversion rate these days? So make sure that you know your vertical, and then and yes, unfortunately, if you really don't have any data whatsoever.
Ferrona Lie: that is a best
Ferrona Lie: number to use, and I would.
Ferrona Lie: I would calibrate a little bit personally into
Ferrona Lie: decreasing the conversion rate, because a lot of these averages, unfortunately, also take into account highly successful ones. And so I think it's within reason to assume that when you're 1st starting out it's not going to work immediately, and so I would either cut it in half, or just kind of use that as a benchmark to like. Okay, realistically, you know, we're we're not going to get there right away.
Ferrona Lie: And so.
Ferrona Lie: And I think this is a reminder for what Troy said at the beginning of each workshop. Hopefully, he still says it, which is that it is wrong. Your financial model is going to be wrong, and you should communicate that to investors anyway, because it is going to be kind of to a certain degree, especially if you're starting out
Ferrona Lie: shooting the numbers out of your asses. Basically. So I hope that's okay. This is recorded. I forgot. Okay,
Ferrona Lie: but yeah, you're you're going to guess for a little bit. And that's a good story.
Fabio Caironi: Alright. Thank you. Yeah.
Kevin Su: So thought. Be sorry. I want to know your thoughts on this, too. The advice I got yesterday was, since we did a lot of outreach on organic. If we can confidently gauge what that conversion would look like through organic.
Kevin Su: you would do some kind of calculation on per hour effort spent to what you would pay for that hour and effort if someone wants to do it. And that's an accurate way. We were told to measure organic outreach if it works for us but
Kevin Su: 5 of those kind of advice I got yesterday, and would love to hear what you think about that, Verona.
Ferrona Lie: I need to clear something to to. I need more clarification, I would say. Is it to calculate your conversion, or
Ferrona Lie: to to gauge your cost of acquisition.
Kevin Su: Yeah, it's to calculate the cost of acquisition. If you don't know what those costs look like for paid channels.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, so
Ferrona Lie: that is to certain degree, too. But I have only seen that make sense. Only if you're going to hire
Ferrona Lie: someone actually do it for you. Because
Ferrona Lie: because hold on a second, let me pull up
Ferrona Lie: near us here. So
Ferrona Lie: one feedback on Troy that I I'm gonna mention. But I'm gonna show you, anyway that he
Ferrona Lie: actually had in his model, but never talked about, which is, I don't know why he never talked about it. Let's see if I have it here at all.
Ferrona Lie: I don't have it on my model.
Ferrona Lie: I'll try to find a way to show it to you, to you guys, maybe offline or asynchronously so in his model in Dollar Cave Club, he actually does have a line item for organic.
Ferrona Lie: and
Ferrona Lie: because the nature of organic, I guess this is answering probably a separate question. But to answer your 1st question first.st Sorry, Kevin.
Ferrona Lie: So if you know exactly that. Okay, those 10 customers is because we reach out a month ago, fantastic, which you attribute it to how many? To the actual channel which is direct outreach, but a lot of times for organic, especially if you reach out to a bunch
Ferrona Lie: and then they reach out to you like months later, or just like when they remember you basically. And you can't easily attribute to where or how exactly you got that customer. I would separate an out a line item, basically for organic
Ferrona Lie: customer
Ferrona Lie: and
Ferrona Lie: which is to include all customers that you don't know how you got. And let's say you get 10 customers this month. You do. You don't really know how you get it. You just record the number month to month, and then
Ferrona Lie: start to track. What is the percentage of
Ferrona Lie: of the number of people that you're actually reaching out to overall from all of your channels. SEO organic direct ads, whatever it is. And then that 10 customers that you got from that month should be represented as a percentage of organic
Ferrona Lie: increase every month. If that makes sense, and
Ferrona Lie: it. It's probably not making that much sense with that illustration. So I'll try to find Dollar Cave Club on my computer. I'm sure I can find it. Because it's it's
Ferrona Lie: it's it's the most makes sense to me. If it's for organic growth.
Ferrona Lie: So I'll actually, I'll take Collab's question.
Ferrona Lie: is it club's question, while I'm also pulling up a dollar capable of. To illustrate that.
Florence Ettlin: Yeah, I just had a quick question about the traffic details. So for us, since we only do outreach, we don't do any marketing at all. Not organic and not paid. We up until now we had that on our assumptions. Do you think it is worth creating a traffic detail just for the organic outreach, like the the outreach that we do.
Florence Ettlin: so that we can grow it month over month and and change it month over month, or would you say for simplicity, purpose in the beginning? It's enough if we add it on 2 assumptions.
Ferrona Lie: If it's a reliable source of your growth, I would add it as an item, especially if you are also doing it consistently. So for instance, let's see here, if I have here.
Ferrona Lie: Oh, okay, yes. So
Ferrona Lie: so this direct communities outreach for tech stand that I have.
Ferrona Lie: This is just the number of retirement communities that I drove to every month
Ferrona Lie: visited every month as well, and it is one of the most efficient way for me to get it. And so I just record the number month to month because I do it consistently. And so if you do, if you have something like that like Facebook posts, I know that some companies are like, okay, we were, gonna do Facebook posts like 10 per week record that as a a top of funnel, otherwise I would include it the way Troy did it for Dollar Cave Club, which I cannot find right now. But
Ferrona Lie: If I can, I will. I will try. Show it to you guys in just a bit
Ferrona Lie: any other questions.
Ferrona Lie: Question. Let me see if I can find the Cave Club.
Ferrona Lie: This is probably because I'm on my work computer, and I did not download it here.
Lilliana Robinson: We had, like A, a b 2 c company that wanted to ask you about revenue formula before we.
Lilliana Robinson: I know that time.
Ferrona Lie: A Btc. Company. That's what I'm sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: They're wanting to share their revenue formula.
Ferrona Lie: Oh, yes.
Ferrona Lie: please
Ferrona Lie: share your revenue formula, if you have it.
Lilliana Robinson: Go ahead. Kevin.
Kevin Su: Yeah, so we're tutor me, we're building a virtual classroom for students, currently focus on the international Baccalaureate market. We're a premium model. So I think our formula is pretty simple for for this purpose right now. But basically it's just number of paying users which is driven by total total accounts multiplied by the conversion to paid times. The subscription price.
Ferrona Lie: How are you getting your customers right now?
Kevin Su: Yeah. Mostly through organic outreach and word of mouth.
Ferrona Lie: Okay.
Kevin Su: So, yeah.
Ferrona Lie: When you say organic outreach, do you do the outreach? Or because organic and outreach to me sounds a little bit
Ferrona Lie: different, because organic means, just kind of like people just come to you and then outreach is you? Do you do it a lot more
Ferrona Lie: intentionally.
Kevin Su: Yeah, got it fair enough. For ours. Our main channels are reddit discord. Whatsapp. Those are the social media channels that we go through. And then our word of mouth. We have a referral.
Kevin Su: We personally have a referral button within our product. But students are also, you know, showing their friends.
Kevin Su: showing whoever they want to go on the product. And we we can't track that latter part. But we have. We will track the Cta button that we have for referrals.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, awesome. So the 1st thought that came to mind is that you should have your. I think you mentioned Reddit Whatsapp and.
Kevin Su: Oh! And Reddit was have a discord.
Ferrona Lie: And discord. Yes, if if that's how you're reaching out your customers, I would separate these out into different channels, because that that is different channels for you before then continuing into your sales detail, which is the number of subscription. I would for freemium one thing that I would add, here is
Ferrona Lie: so I
Ferrona Lie: personally, this is personal preference. I track everyone that becomes subscribers here.
Ferrona Lie: and then track the ones that convert into paying subscribers on the sales detail.
Ferrona Lie: Because then you will have basically to subscription at 2 conversions number
Ferrona Lie: numbers that represent different, very different things for you guys. And then the monthly income statement will then have the only paying, because I'm assuming people become premium first, st and then you want to track how many convert into paying? Yeah.
Kevin Su: Exactly.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, I would suggest putting all premium users here, like, how many actually convert into all of your Chan from all of your channels, and then track separately conversion into paying. Because, what's what can be tricky with premium is also is that the timeline at which they convert vary a lot so they can be premium right now and then they drop for some reasons, and then continue later, etc. So
Ferrona Lie: I will track it differently.
Kevin Su: Great. Yeah, that makes sense. I think it was. Troy had brought up the point yesterday, too, because different. Where you get your users, they might perform differently as well. So you're also looking out for different Roi's on how you're how much you're paying for that user that you're getting for. Xyz social media accounts.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, yes, that's correct. And so I can't find the Dollar Cave Club. So what I was suggesting. And this is probably more, or it could be more relevant. For B, 2 CB, 2 B cycle typically is is hard, is that? Let's say this is organic subscribers.
Ferrona Lie: and like you got 15 last month or something and so, initially, if you can't really attribute to how you new customers actually got to you, I will just start literally, just tracking the number of getting number of subscribers that you're getting and ignore it for a little bit. Until you actually get more data and say, and so let's say, this is already December.
Ferrona Lie: and do the actual practice of blocking out the colors. So you also know which one's real, which it's not. Let's say this is your organic subscribers. These are people you don't know how you got these
Ferrona Lie: and so
Ferrona Lie: let's see here, we have 50, 68, and 82.
Ferrona Lie: And
Ferrona Lie: actually let me
Ferrona Lie: put into here.
Ferrona Lie: So how Troy
Ferrona Lie: did it
Ferrona Lie: is, he would
Ferrona Lie: basically
Ferrona Lie: make a percentage based on all of the
Ferrona Lie: channels
Ferrona Lie: that you have. So I don't have the. Let me do this first.st I can't multitask. Okay, so
Ferrona Lie: this is what Troy did for b 2 c organic and organic in this case, meaning you don't know how you got them.
Ferrona Lie: and so he basically just divide the number of that customers that convert into subscribers
Ferrona Lie: by all of the channels that led to an actual, let's say, impression or visit to your to your website. So in this case I have 3 80 people came to the website, and I have 55, also from SEO. And so all in all this, 10 people came about like represent 2% of the total visitors of of
Ferrona Lie: yeah, all the visitors are visible.
Ferrona Lie: You basically do that for each month.
Ferrona Lie: and then you're realizing soon enough that most of the time they at least average out. I don't say that that has to be the case, but a lot of times they do average out and so now you can say, okay.
Ferrona Lie: 2% of new subscribers that I have every month
Ferrona Lie: comes from organic. And this organic is.
Ferrona Lie: you know, you don't really know how they hear about you, but that's that's fine. And so you can start having a line item, for instance, on your sales. Detail that. Okay? Every.
Ferrona Lie: there's going to be organic here.
Ferrona Lie: And then new subscribers
Ferrona Lie: is going to be that 2%
Ferrona Lie: and multiply by the number of visitors that you have every website on on your website every month.
Ferrona Lie: This is how Troy did it. It makes sense, for near at the time when we were still doing
Ferrona Lie: a lot of b 2 c efforts. And so if you are b 2 c, and this often happens.
Ferrona Lie: That is one way to also go about it, too, when you don't know where you're getting your customers
Ferrona Lie: cool.
Ferrona Lie: Any other question before we move on.
Ferrona Lie: I guess at this point. What is
Ferrona Lie: still
Ferrona Lie: it? Any questions unrelated to what I have presented? What is the hardest part of getting started? What is
Ferrona Lie: preventing some of you guys from having a model that you like. Maybe that's.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, like blockers, general blockers, maybe. Fernan, do you? Wanna
Lilliana Robinson: do you want to stop sharing? And we can just take some final questions in these last 5 min.
Lilliana Robinson: The whole point of this is so that you guys feel like when we leave in 5 min you can go and actually start your model. Is there anything that any of you feel is a blocker? And it's okay. If it's outside of the time span of 5 min, because Veronica can dig in with you on Thursday.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, George.
George Reed - Noetic: Thank you. Yeah, I I think it's just like.
George Reed - Noetic: and I know we've said it multiple times, and everyone's in the same boat, roughly speaking.
George Reed - Noetic: but how hypothetical it is, and like trying to come up with all of these different figures.
George Reed - Noetic: I know, like a lot of it's assumptions. So we can do that, but it's still kind of you don't know what you don't know, so I know you just get started. It'll be wrong and all that. But if you have any kind of general
George Reed - Noetic: tips on, just
George Reed - Noetic: paint things in.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, especially closer to pre revenue term.
George Reed - Noetic: Hmm.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, so
George Reed - Noetic: Covering.
Ferrona Lie: That's a great point about pre revenue. So I want to say that, start with the things that I alluded briefly, which is that you already are doing or at least plan to do very, very soon. So let's say you're pre revenue, and you are planning to just reach out to 10 people every month.
Ferrona Lie: to promote your product
Ferrona Lie: and just model off of that. Don't try to over complicate by things that you're
Ferrona Lie: not going to even do in the next like quarter or 2, because they won't. It wouldn't make sense. And I think, there's a lot of
Ferrona Lie: concern that I've I'm hearing from the previous. At least, this is from the previous cohort that. Okay? Then it means that if I just focus on our building model based off of what I do. Now, then, my numbers are going to stagnant.
Ferrona Lie: and in reality it. It's not going to stagnant because things compound over time. So even if your conversion rate is 1% every month, it is still 1% increase every month. So
Ferrona Lie: it's okay. And and and don't worry about things that you haven't done
Ferrona Lie: and also second for this is probably could also what Annie had mentioned as well like. If you're still playing around with your pricing model.
Ferrona Lie: You don't know what to charge them. Build it out separately.
Ferrona Lie: so that you know what actually works. Because then, eventually, like, I showed before. At at 1 point I'm I'm noticing which one's actually making money for my business. And so some
Ferrona Lie: products I just
Ferrona Lie: abandon entirely. But track them as much as you can, and then
Ferrona Lie: make sure that it represents what you are already doing.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, rapid fire, Annie, and then collapse.
George Reed - Noetic: Thanks.
Annie Brown: I guess on when we are.
Annie Brown: when we're not doing any paid marketing at all like it says all external outreach, like thought leadership. Speaking, at events, what does that look like in a model? Is that just a 1 line or.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, so for I'll answer it 2 different ways. The 1st one is that if you do something or you plan to do something regularly then track it as such. So, for instance, if you do 10 Linkedin outreach every day, make sure you actually record it.
Ferrona Lie: And if you have not planned to do so. I would highly encourage having something like that, because at the end of day, especially for b 2 b volume can also be your key as well, and then second, for conferences so my 1st company relied heavily on conferences. They don't happen all the time. But
Ferrona Lie: if you are doing your 1st 1st conference, I would highly highly encourage. Tracking. How many book actually came to your booth? How many people actually have follow up calls with you, and started to actually be disciplined in your sales, pipeline, to understand
Ferrona Lie: what they mean to your business, because then you can also decide whether or not it makes sense to return to the same conference. I would still record it on the financial model. It's not going to be month to month, but that's still going to, especially if it's going to make a needle for a booth and go for your business. I would still track it, too.
Annie Brown: Okay, awesome.
Annie Brown: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, Collab. And if you guys need to drop because we're gonna hit time, go ahead and drop. Thank you, Fiona. We'll see you guys later, today, go ahead.
Florence Ettlin: So one thing we were unsure about was the paid pilots, and how to record them, especially if they're for example, 2 weeks only so. Some might convert in the same month, others might move over to the next month. So if you have any examples, I know right now we don't have time, but that might be something we would want to look over with you in the office hours or something. Yeah, on that front.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, this is going back to accounting, I think, because it's going to be an accounting problem and not necessarily going to be a model problem, because on the model side you can still track how many actually convert into into paid and the conversions gonna the conversion rates gonna stay the same and the amount of revenue is gonna stay, the same things are gonna are gonna be the same. What's going to be messy, however, is how you account for it on your accounting, because then the same customer can convert.
Ferrona Lie: No, you know. October 30, th but then the payment is in common. November first.st So it's going to look like it's an October like in November revenue when it is truly October, for instance. And so
Ferrona Lie: this is this, I. I can take this offline, too.
Ferrona Lie: I would highly suggest, use a cash based accounting. If you have an accounting system, just because then it's easier to track. What is actually happening. Because then, you know, when accounting recognizes some
Ferrona Lie: recognizes revenue, it's not the same as when cash is coming in, and that's where most of the discrepancies are for are are from and so
Ferrona Lie: I'm not answering your question that well, but
Florence Ettlin: Do you think that for now we can ignore like the paid pilots? And then just bring that in later on.
Florence Ettlin: Once we're clear about. Okay, this is how long it takes to bring on a pilot. This is how much, how many of them convert? All those kind of things are stabilized, then we can bring it into the model.
Ferrona Lie: I would say so. And I also start. So a couple of things, especially for paypilot. The 1st one is, make sure to track. How long does it take for them to actually convert? Because you can start building it on the model? I have it on near, because it takes approximately 3 months for B, 2 B. At least for senior living. And then so it's kind of like a delayed revenue, right? So the money is not going to actually
Ferrona Lie: become money until, like, you know, 3 months later. For me, for customers that I reach out in March, it's gonna be for June, for instance, so you can build it out so that your model represents that but then.
Ferrona Lie: if you don't have that consistency yet, I wouldn't worry too much about it. And then, once you have enough data to actually build it out on the model, then I would I would build it out on your model. So.
Florence Ettlin: Oh, got it! That's good! We'll ignore it for now. Perfect.
Ferrona Lie: Awesome. Great seeing, you guys, I will see most of you on Thursdays. All, all of them are on Thursdays. How does it work.
Lilliana Robinson: Everyone has a slot. Yeah, it's assigned slot in the calendar. So everybody will be meeting with you. Verona. Thank you so much for your time. I think you're going and having lunch with me all now, right as a thank you.
Ferrona Lie: Yes, I am.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. Good.
Ferrona Lie: Not be like.
Lilliana Robinson: Because you're giving us a lot of time, so I'll see you later. So good to see you.
Florence Ettlin: Bye, guys, have a good day.